
[[Scott & Davis, 2007 - Organizations as Natural Systems]]
The Organization as a Natural system seems to be related to the social discursive perspective. Perhaps in the same way that on page 63 of  they talk about organizations as having both a formal structure and an informal structure, categories could be conceptualized the same way. What if market categories themselves are like organizations of their own and actors who participate in them are "employees". Producers are those with the means of capital and consumers are workers in the Theory Y sense. In fact, [[@Mcgregor, Douglas]] says that most individuals no not "inherently dislike work ... the expenditure of physical and mental effort in work is as natrual as play or rest" (The Human side of Enterprise, p.47) -- this is from page 67 of S&D. Take people who grind in video games like WOW or EVE for example. The boundary between work and play is blurred. Also, on p. 84 they say Barnard "recognizes that a given individual partitipates in many cooperative groups simultaneously, so that his or her involvement in any sinle organization is both partial and intermittent."" 

I am probably drawn to business because I don't trust anyone. Is bureaucracy a result of lack of trust in others and desire to control? What effect does family involvement in business have due to increased trust? Why are Taiwanese/Asians so interested in this?

[[@Pfeffer, Jeffery]] talks about how the study of orgs. lost favour with psychology where it appeared to be too applied and became marginalized in engineering schools, that were more concerned with hard science. The advent of content analysis may be responsible for a renewed interest in OT since it gives researchers an empirical tool or a method to capture or quantify social processes/interactions. Social processes occur through communication (text) so content analysis provides a means of analyzing "the context and constraints within which behavior occurs"  (Pfeffer, 1997, p. 5)

Structural Contingency theory was popular originally, it suggested that organizations all had different structures (eg. strategy) and those that fit the external environment are more successful. It fell out of favor with scholars and was replaced with organizational ecology that says change is the result of a natural-selection-like effect, i.e., change is a result of birth and death of many organizations. (Actually, though ecology says orgs. change with their environments and environments change constantly, and so so do orgs.) When we look at products, they typically are treated as static - you can't really change a product after it is released. But now what if you consider all the iphone products as really one product that is constantly adapting to the environment. Or, what if you track the development of an early-access game that changes based on feedback from alpha testers, maybe structural contingency theory is actually a better explanation of such "adaptable" products than ecological theories.

[[@Hall, Richard H.]] Talks about how [[@Stinchcombe, Arthur]] describes the effect of overall level of literacy in the external environment encourages formation of organizations and increases their staying power because:
- It enables more alternatives to be posed to more people
- It facilitates learning new roles with no nearby model
- It encourages impersonal contact with customers
- It allows money and resources to be distributed to strangers over larger distances (trust)
- It increases the predictability of the future environment (p. 202)

So how could you represent and measure the "literacy" of certain audiences and how might this affect the rate at which new categories are formed or boundaries are drawn? Also, is it possible that the characteristics of the categories themselves and the characteristics of the audiences such products attract are related? Then, does such differences in the composition of different audiences in different market categories change how such categories evolve? For instance, Action gamers like dynamic, rapid, uncertain, novel environments. RPG gamers have more vivid imaginations. Strategy gamers might be more cautious and analytical. How do these qualities affect how they categorize / games or interpret categorizations of others and how does this affect the different categories?

Reading [[Zuckerman, 1999 - The Categorical Imperative]] and he says:
"Other markets for social goods include real estate or education, where the benefit derived depends on others’ consumption of similar resources (cf. Hirsch 1976), or technology, where the need for compatibility generates “network externalities” (e.g., Farrell and Saloner 1985)."
This makes me think of new MMO video games being released where the potential derived benefit depends on the number of players people think will be playing the game. So, for instance, Amazon paid a bunch of streamers to alpha-test New World so that it gives the impression that there will be a larger audience. 
 - Empirically, you could start scraping twitch and record which game the popular streamers are streaming and see how it correlates to performance.

Reading [[Deephouse, 1999 - To be Different, or to be the Same]] and thinking:
What about an experiment where you write an app: give a person 10 shapes and 10 colors and you tell them to create a picture and that it will be evaluated somehow. One group has no reference - they just design it on their own. A second group sees a sample of 10 other pictures already created by people (maybe exemplars with category labels) . A third group creates the picture at the same time as 9 other people simultaneously and they can see what everyone else is doing. 
- Does the group with categorical / exemplar references make stuff that conforms more?
- By tracking the mouse movement of the participants are they changing their picture more because of what others are doing (could use eye tracking too)
- Could get evaluations done by Mturk after and try two kinds: evaluators have no reference (control for quality) and #2 they have 10 others as references and #3 they get 10 and they need to put them in order of best to worst

